---
layout: post-sidebar
title: "Burning a Strange Evil"
date: 2016-08-15 07:14:28
categories: storytime
author_name : Ayo Kolapo
author_url : /author/ayo
author_avatar: ayo
show_avatar : true
read_time : 34
feature_image: feature-fire
show_related_posts: true
square_related: recommend-fire
---

On my desktop screen is the picture of cupid, the winged boy god of love. He is naked, but he’s not bothered about that; rather, a glint of mischief dance in his eyes and a smile curl his lips, he is occupied with his bow and golden heart arrow. He must have struck one of those arrows in my heart years ago. For I fell in love with a girl at ten. Lola, the girl at the house opposite ours, was the only friend my older sisters approve of. She was not dirty and rough like the other boys. And I did not come home with bleeding knees when I play with her.

But she was only my first girl love. I had loved other things. As a child I had fallen in love with shutting myself in silence and dark, transporting myself into the world where colors sing and laugh and dance. I fell in love with the butterfly. The way its wings flutter, yellow now, golden then, as it flirts with the sunflower.

As a grownup, I stopped loving these things. I have instead fallen in love with poetry, then entrepreneurship and then physics.  I imagine if these subjects were women, Poetry would have been hurt in the heart when I fell in love with Entrepreneurship and Entrepreneurship when I was loving Physics. I would have been married and divorced for the third and repeated time. There lies the introduction to the problems of modern love. 

Love!

What a great emotion this word carries that it bends; and I’m at trepidation to think starkly about it.  But I must attempt. To talk about the nature of love, I must strip down the garment of hypocrisy, strip pass the sentiment of scented roses, pass the flattering rhythm of love songs—to the very bone of love.

People learn, and people change. Because as Ralph Emerson wrote: the eyes was placed where one ray should fall, that it might testify of the particular ray, we are attracted to different knowledge and we learn different things from the same knowledge. We come to evolve to become different people with respect to time.  A successful love story is one where the couple evolve to people each can still tolerate. Most are not so fortunate. 

In a society where people are freer to choose what they learn with little stigmatization--that is, less susceptible to conformity--and are not economically dependent on their spouses: 1 in every 2 couples will divorce. 

People love, and people seek to take. We seek to take either the tangible or the intangible, or both. The former, the lust we were warned against but drawn to so often seeks the man with power and property; it seeks the lady with grace and charm. The other love, sublimed in poetry books, seeks to take too. It takes the intangible.  It takes the chip of that sweetheart’s heart to complete his or hers first. It never seeks to do it the other way round.

There is still that glint in cupid’s eyes today. But what is love will change.

